Okay, now we got it. It's, what, Tuesday, April
15th. Tax day. Tax day. 1997, and we're at the home
of Joe and Betty Moore in Austin, Texas, and we're
going to talk about the Texas A&M University Press
and about the Moores. And I don't know who wants to
begin, but... No, you were starting out. Tell me
about how you came along, literally, originally.
How I got to A&M. You were born in Alvin. Let's start
there. That's correct. And my dad was a dairy
farmer. He actually had four dairies. So I was
raised on a farm until I went to A&M. Okay, now when
were you born, if you don't mind? 1917. 1917. March
29th. And in our family,
we had four boys
and three girls. Seven. Our older
brother went to the M. Actually, he went to the
junior college first, and he went to the M. Did you
go to school in Alvin? Oh yes, I graduated in Alvin
High School. I think there were only twenty-four
graduating seniors when I graduated in 1934.
But anyhow, I guess the first I heard of A&M was my
brother.
I suppose he liked it. Then he decided my mother
said that she was going to have all of her children
go to college.
So, Warren picked me up there one time. I was
divided between studying agriculture or
engineering. I got interested in engineering
because the oil exploration was active. about
that time in the area where we lived. Actually, we
brought in a field several miles from where we
lived. There was a lot of geophysical activity
going on. That's where I got interested in oil
business. I didn't know whether to stay in
agriculture, which I knew from the ground up
already. Too well. My dad encouraged me to studied
engineering. Actually, I started from geology.
And they had what they called a course in
geological engineering at that time, and that's
what I enrolled in. Okay, so what year was that? I
started in 1934. 1934. Yeah. And was Buck Shewitz
in that class? No, he was much younger than me.
Okay. I'd say I was in class of 1938. All right. I'd
say he was about forty. Forty-one.
Okay. And who, when you were enrolled, I just
finished doing a little history of chemical
engineering at A&M, and Duke Fortin was one of the
big chemical engineer, I guess he's kind of, what
all are you doing? Did you remember him at all? Was
he at EMF? Yes, sir. As a professor. The only one I
remember is Brake. Okay, yeah. Professor Brake.
D-R-A-Y-T-O-R-E. Yeah. Let's see, who was the
head of EMF? I was advised by people in agriculture
that I've never passed chemistry or calculus.
Yeah, I did. I changed from geological
engineering to petroleum engineering because I
was advised at that time it was easier to get a job.
But anyhow, I graduated petroleum engineering
and then I decided that I needed more geology, more
petroleum geology. The professor at A&M at that
time was what you call a hard
rock geologist. And he didn't know much about the,
that was Dr. Baker, but anyhow. Then I went to
Oklahoma University and took all of their geology
courses.
And I got a massive degree from there and I was lucky
enough to have offered us three jobs when I got out,
probably because I had experience in the oil
field. Had you worked in the oil fields in the
summer? Yes. I worked three summers on the
drilling board.
One of my students. During the, after I graduated,
And I was waiting to go to Oklahoma.
And I met Betty. Betty was visiting her
grandmother and uncle in Alvin. She had been born
in Alvin, but had moved to Ohio. And she was
visiting back when I met her. I worked with her that
summer when I was working in the rig and decided to
get married. So we married at Christmas time,
actually December 23rd, when I was at Oklahoma
University.
She was
a big help
with me all the time.
We were, I'd say, moving from job to
job. I first went with Cheryl, and we moved about
ten times the first year. It was actually a
two-year transport. And we moved, we lived in
Louisiana. We first went to And then they moved
me to Louisiana, worked on different things. But
the fact that I had worked in the oil field, I had
quite an advantage over the other guys that had
never been in the oil field. And then having Betty
along, it's more... Anyhow, we were actually
pretty privileged and moved up pretty fast. In
Shell. How long were you with Shell? About four
years. Four years. And I had an offer with a smaller
company I had made up my mind that Shell had what
they called exploitation engineering, not
geology. I wanted to get into geology, and I was
offered a job in . Anyhow, I took the job. about
twice the scale
of Shell. And I worked with them for about four
years. And then there was a consultant, I'd say, an
independent geologist that had found the field
and was working with Fuller for a long time. a
fellow named Sam
Marshall. He was probably one of the best site
geologists. He got no publicity because he didn't
publish anything or anything
else. He just found quite a lot of oil. His dad, he
was a graduate of the University of... No, no, no.
His dad, he may be right. He could have been a
graduate. professor,
head of geology department at Madison,
Wisconsin.
Anyhow, that was the background. He knew more
basic limestone geology, and that's what West
Texas is. And I went independent working under
him. So I've been in independent geology since. So
what year, what year did you go independent, just
out of curiosity? I'd say, let's see,
I started working
in the 40s or 50s. In the 50s or 50s. In Hobbs, New
Mexico. Right. And we lived in Hobbs, New Mexico
for about a year. Oh, did you? Okay. Because that
was the development
of the deeper zones in the Western Basin. Right.
And because of our interest in production,
re-production, gathered sands right down on the
coast. We got interested in the Williston Basin.
You know where the Williston Basin is in North
Dakota? Roughly, yeah. So we would work during the
winter months in West Texas and then the summer
months in North Dakota. You were migrants early
on. Well, actually, it's foresightedness that
Sam Marshall had. Actually, we were drawn to the
area, the Wilson Basin, when a well blew out in
Alberta County. It was a big field that was a
barnstorming reef, and we were trying to trace
that reef down into the Wilson Basin. We found out
it was completely different geology, but we got
interested and did work in the Western Basin
before they found the field. that we already
had the geology and had made some ideas about where
we had the best prospects. We still, right now, my
son is running our company. He's got a little bit of
a family on him. Our office is in Midland. In
Midland. We moved. We advanced up from Oz to
Midland. To Midland, okay. We're probably with
Midland in the 60s. And
I've been retired all this time continually
working. Yeah, that's what happens. My son Ron is
our company now. Our operation right now mostly is
in the district. Do you still keep up with him? Not
too much. Well, he's getting faxed well reports
every morning. Yeah, we're still at it. We had
something going on in Louisiana. But my son does, I
mean he runs everything, the details. And the only
thing I do is try to help him with the archaeology.
That's interesting. I know what you're talking
about a little bit. I worked with a seismograph
team one summer You really know something, man. I
did a fun book on, I don't know if you ever saw it, but
I did a fun book on, I don't know if you ever saw it,
but I did a fun book on, I don't know if you ever saw
it, but I did a fun book on, I don't know if you ever
saw it, but I did a I know another thing about the oil
business. When they were having the big oil boom at
College Station, I invested. And I never saw
$3,500 go down quite so fast in all my life. That's
the worst anything anybody can do is invest, but
not in the oil business. Oh, I tell you, it was
interesting, educational. Let Manny tell you a
little bit about that. Please, yeah. early deals,
because that kind of gets us up to where we started.
Actually, we were living in Midland. No, I'm
sorry. We had moved to Midland and had a house out
here at Lakeland.
And that's the time that we got involved with Frank
Wardle, even though we had been involved with the
Farmer Students Association and knew Jack
Williams before that time. Okay, well, we'll come
back there. Betty, you're from Alvin, too? I'm
from Alvin,
but I moved to Ohio when I was 12 and stayed there.
Did you really? Well, it's just like you said,
people that have never been on an airplane and they
don't know what they've been taught in their
backyard or something. Where'd you move to in
Ohio? It was Deshner, Ohio. Northwest Ohio.
Anyway, as soon as I could, I got back to Texas. But
anyway, I met Joe and Alvin. I didn't know him. I
thought he was going to A&M. I met him later through
a mutual girlfriend. He didn't know that he was
married. That happens. She's on the good side of
it. Well, we married in 1939, and we had three sons.
When we first got married, we moved about four or
five years ago. We moved 10 times in the first two
years. It was a little bit of a shell. It was a
training program, you know, so we'd be one office.
We started out in Houston. That should have been a
good background, too. Did you have a good sense of
the whole thing? I knew what they were
doing. I worked in a gasoline bank. I worked at a
rig. And then I worked in an office. I worked under a
law department. I had a cousin who retired from,
Bob Jordan. He was living in Thailand. What area
was he in? So then you got together, you married,
you moved a lot, and how was the oil business for
you? Well, we liked every place we lived. We lived
in some dumps. Top salary for a guy with a master's
degree in geology at that time was $135 a month.
With three owners I had. Two of them were 125, and
one of them was 135. Because I took shells in the
training camp. I remember another thing about the
oil business. When I finished Texas in 1956, I had a
lot of friends in geology. They didn't get any
jobs. They were a shock. And so When did you begin to
feel like you were settling
down a little bit? When we went to Hobbs and Joe
decided to leave and go independent, then we
pretty much did what we did. Yeah, we bought a house
and we pretty much settled down. Now, as an
independent consultant geologist type in those
days, was that kind of a boom and bust business?
Well, it depends on how you did it. Actually, we
saw... fluctuations in the price of oil and the
activity, but we were never busted.
Yeah, that's true.
We pretty much had a gradual increase in Well,
I'd say that
basically,
if you look at the long-range planning,
the ups and downs, they are a foolish thing, just
like the stock market, but we would never call it
that. During those years, how about A&M? When did
you begin to get loose into the A&M? Well, I, in the
earlier days, well, I say not the earlier days, I
say the middle. I got to hear too much about A&M. As a
result, we only had one son go to school there. And I
don't know if it's because they, you know, hurt so
much of it. Yeah.
Were you active in A&M activity? I guess there were
a lot of Aggies with you in the business, probably.
Well, yes. Actually, in living, I had four
classmates that lived there at the time. Three of
us were in . When we got started with A&M, I suppose I
actually started it because the Southwest We
started A&M Club as a lot of clubs started by having
a muster. We had a muster of our house. Oh, okay. Is
that right? And we invited some of the A&M people
that we knew. Was that in Hobbs? Yes. And that club
that we started, there was a couple other Aggies
living there. My favorite, he's still there. But
anyhow,
we would have a muster up there every year, and then
I got involved in the association. I was in what
they called the best Texas representative
assembly at that time, and then finally got
appointed
to the assembly. Well, the president elected
first, and then the president, then the pastor.
And then he was on the Development
Foundation seven years. Well, I began to learn to
like it. After a while. Let's say you couldn't help
but like it. Well, Joe was a charter member of the
12th man, you know, with that thing. It was so
small, maybe we could meet over in the kitchen.
Yeah. We saw both, at
that
time, the former Student Association and the
Haggard
Club, we saw them develop and improve almost every
year. And right now, they're just 100,000 percent
better than they used to start there, because they
make improvements every year. It's really
impressive, you know, the non-exemption student
student out there. Who do you attribute mostly? Is
it any single person, or the former students, or to
that kind of organization development of that
association? Those are unique associations.
Actually, they started improving the
association at the time that the Aggie jokes were
being told, and it was affecting the students
coming in, and I'd say that Bob Latimer was present
at that time, and they made an effort to send the
students out to the high schools and so forth. They
started selling the program. You see, the whole
thing The difference in the early days
on the Student Association was they used to have
meetings, and they called
them BB meetings,
Beer and Blame. And a lot of them, let's say Jim
Sewell would come to the early ones, and later Jim
Harvey Cash. And they thought only of improving
the association to help the image of A&M. And they
started improving the, what do you call it, the
text society, the magazine. I've been in a lot of
complaints about it, really. And I guess Jerry
Cooper came in about that time, too, right? That's
right. I'm always admiring Buck Wirons, too. Yes.
They actually, about the time, in the early days,
they kind of started working on the fundraiser.
and having programs. The first program was
probably the fundraiser, but they started going
into other programs to improve the image and
combat the bad Aggie jokes. For a while, they
actually affected the senior partners in high
school. But anyhow, then for some reason later on,
A&M got real popular for seniors to come to. And all
the programs that Jack Williams probably had more
to do with
telling students what to tell. Let's
talk about, I guess, that time period now when the
A&M Press is getting ready to get started.
What is your, I guess, let's see, I'm not sure where
to start it and you can bring things in, but what is
your first recollection I'm hearing about him
technically in the American press. Yes. Yes. I
think that at that time, this would have been 74,
and
I had been president of the association in 72.
Okay.
I'm not sure of those dates. I'll check it. I know
that I was president in 1974. because at that time
they started having models.
I remember that Bob Latimer said we're going to get
better every year. Just before me,
Melvin Moss, he had a slogan of a better
communication between the students and alumni
and administration. My field was more dull in 74. I
remember I was in 74. But anyhow, all of the
programs at that time started improving and
getting, actually we were getting to get the
better quality of people coming in, instead of
just the rah-rah. We used to go in the rah-rah sock
booth. We've been out there 15 years, I can't say
that. Anyhow, the first time that we saw Frank
Wardle, he and Jack and several others, I asked
them, I don't know whether it was Bob Walker or
Randy Mattson. They flew out to Amarillo to talk
with Harold Dunn. You know Harold Dunn? Yeah, I
know. In fact, there's a letter in the files about
the same time. And they, French, had been aware of a
young artist that lived in Sweetwater, and had
made some paintings of West Texas
ranches and so forth, and this fellow in Fort Worth
had told Frank about this fellow at one of the
museums. But anyhow, they flew out there and made
the pitch to Harold Dunn to put up some money for the
book series and harold at that time said that he
was kind of closing out his estate or something and
they were flying back from amarillo and they said
let's stop by and see joe moore and we just happened
to be there, we actually were staying in two motel
rooms. We had two motel rooms side to side. And we,
at that time, we had built a house at Lakewood. We
built a house there in 72. Out here on the lake. For
some reason, we were back in Midland, so they got in
touch with us. I don't know exactly how, but they
decided to stop by and talk to us. And I can remember
that we were in the hotel room there. We were all,
they had a whole bunch of these pictures. It was
really interesting. The ones that Mondo Rogers
had done. And we were in it. And he had no idea. But
the thing that impressed me was the enthusiasm
that Wardlock showed. You could just tell that he
was a success. And Jack was very enthused. And they
just said they didn't have a choice but to look at it
and think about it. What else do you remember about
the meeting? But I remember there was lots of
people in there. For some reason, we got two rooms
because some of our family was not living in
Midland, and they were there together with us.
We'd gone back to... Our office was still there,
but I wasn't running.
What do you remember about the meeting? That's
what I remember. I remember we just had so much fun.
looking at those pictures, all in a lot of
excitement. And we were thinking more about this
building than anything else. So anyhow. Let me ask
you, too. What did you think about Wardlaw when you
first met him? That was your first encounter with
Frank Wardlaw? He was the most enthusiastic guy.
You've got to have enthusiasm for anything. He was
sincere. funny, I mean, lovable, and we might have
had a few groups up there. I'm sure you did. I'm sure
you did. Maybe you say what you thought. Now, that
was my impression that made me really
enthusiastic
about the project. Well, I thought that Jack
Williams felt the same way as Frank did, and I
thought, well, Jack Williams got to be the
balance, because here's Frank, all enthusiasm,
but somebody else, you know. And then I guess we
decided in two or three days. Well, I think we
decided that night. But we told him. Yeah, a little
bit later. That's correct. If I remember right,
Jack Williams told us that to have a great
university, you need a great press and a great
person, so you've got to have a great library and a
great scholarly press. And I'd say that'd be
impressive. But they left the pictures with us, I
believe. We told them that we'd give them an answer
in a day or two if we'd go out to dinner with us. Did
they go? I didn't remember that, but Haskell said
that they stayed. Haskell wouldn't remember. He
really remembered everything. We
talked to those women. I believe they said it cost
$75,000.